To check
whether the nth bit is set or not, which bitwise
operator can we use? We can use bitwise AND
operator because if we do bitwise AND between
zero and one, we will get zero.
And if we do bitwise AND between one and one,
we will get one.
Now let us see an example. Let us take the
number 64 here
We are going to check whether the fifth bit is
set or not.
So let us first create the bit mask with fifth bit
bit alone set to one.
Take the number one and perform n-1 left shifts.
That is one left shift four and
our bitmask is now ready.
Now let us do bitwise AND operation between the
number and the bit mask. Since zero AND one is
zero, the nth bit will become zero
The rest of the bits will also be set to zero
as we're performing bitwise AND operation with zero
And as the result is zero, we can say that the
fifth bit in this number is not set or fifth
bit in this number is OFF. Now let us see another example
We have the number 64 and we need to check if
seventh bit is set or not.
So first let us create the bit mask. That is,
Take number one and left shift seven minus one times
That is one  left shift six and the bit mask is ready.
Now perform bitwise AND between the number 64 the
bit mask and since bitwise AND on one and one
is one, the result becomes non zero. So we can
say seventh bit is set or ON in this number.